---
layout: post
---
Emma Shen

(858)-705-5930 | aimashen.2017@gmail.com

San Diego, CA

Career Interest: Computer Science

Education

\- Del Norte High School (Class of 2024)

\- Unweighted GPA: 3.95, Weighted GPA: 4.41

\- Completed AP classwork: AP Biology, AP Calculus AB, AP Chemistry, AP Chinese, AP European History

Outside Courses

\- 100 Days of Code - The Complete Python Pro Bootcamp (November 2021 - January 2022), Grade A | Udemy

\- CS50: Introduction to Computer Science (April 2022 - June 2022), Grade A | Harvard University

Awards & Achievements

\- Winning Project in UCLA Computer Science Summer Institute Intermediate Track (2021) | International

\- Gold President’s Volunteer Service Award (2022) | National

\- AP Scholar Award with Distinction (2022) | National

\- Scholar Athlete Award (2021) | School

Extracurricular Activities

\- Founder and President, Academics and Athletics for All (March 2022-Present) Student-run nonprofit organization to collect and distribute sports equipment, athletic clothing, and educational materials to underprivileged kids.

\- Outreach leader and coder, First Tech Challenge Team (May 2022 - Present)

Build and program a robot to compete in tournaments. Organize volunteering events to introduce robotics to children interested in STEM.

\- Mentor for FLL Robotics Team (July 2022 - Present)

\- Leader, First Lego League Team (2017-2019)

Competed in 3 tournament divisions at the middle-school level. Solved missions with a LEGOMINDSTORM robot on a special obstacles course. Presented an innovative solution to a real world problem to a panel of judges. Learned how to efficiently lead a team under points of pressure.

\- Member (2014-2021), Leader in Training (2020-Present), AWANA

Take care and teach a group of kids about Jesus and the bible through games and small group activities.

\- Vice-President, International Association of Youth (July 2022 - Present)

Collect and distribute sleeping bags to the homeless

\- Competitive Tennis (2016-Present)

Competed in USTA tournaments around Southern California. Del Norte High School Varsity tennis team. Freshmen year - Third Place in Palomar League Singles Division
