---
toc: true
layout: post
description: Yipeee
categories: [Big Idea]
title: Big Idea Reflection 
---

**5.1 Beneficial and Harmful Effects**
1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing

<mark>Benefits</mark>
- Computing allows us to create technological devices that make our lives easier. For example, just one device, the iPhone, has revolutionized communication, safety, and access to knowledge. With good service and wifi, we can contact anyone we want from wherever we want. In times of danger if we feel unsafe we can call 911 which will send help our way in the matter of seconds. If we want to learn how to cook a meal, what the cube root is of 64, and why fruit is good for you, the phone is a mobile device that makes it possible for us to access the answers to these questions anywhere. 
- Computing can analyze and categorize mass data at a speed and accuracy that humans cannot. The applications of AI have taken over from the health to the transportation industry.For example, there is computer software designed to help screen for cancers. Computers can scan through millions of possible signs of cancer and give a positive or negative result in less than a few minutes. Scientists are also using computers to help invent new methods of curing diseases with protein sequence pattern matching.
- Innovative computer software can help those who are disadvantaged or have physical disabilities. For example, Stephen Hawking used a computer to speak, which wouldn't be as easy without a computer. Computers are also great tools for the blind; special software (screen reader), can read what is on the screen. Computers and computer-controlled devices help increase a better quality of life for many different types of people.

<mark>Harms </mark>
- A clear harm of computing is that when technology makes our life easier, our brains are getting dumber. ChatGPT is a prime example. While it is a very useful for students to get answers to their questions who is good temporarily to get homework done, it is negative long-term when the student needs to recall this information on a test. 
- While machine learning and data mining have greatly benefitted many fields, their findings are also susceptible to biases and may unintentionally contribute to discrimination. One recent story takes place in 2019 when Optum, a health services algorithm that predicts which patients benefit most from extra medical care, exhibited fundamental prejudice against black patients. The algorithm used how much money a patient spends on healthcare as a measure of how healthy they are; however, since black patients face disproportionate levels of poverty and often spend less on health care than whites, the algorithm falsely concluded that blacks were healthier than equally sick white patients. Here it can be seen that computing is NOT perfect. In fact, it is seen as beneath humans because it is not capable of taking into account social factors such as race.
- Replacement of humans by computing innovations, leading to the loss of previously existing jobs and economic hardship for the now-unemployed workers

2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?

I believe that dopamine issues caused by overuse of technology is true. Social media and video games are designed to make you addicted to checking and playing them. Spending so much time recieving "short-term" pleasure from playing games on your computer will decrease your joy in other ordinary actions that usually bring you dopamine such as exericising. For me personally, I have found it harder to get out of bed and find joy in the small things when I spend multiple hours a day just staring at a screen. 

**5.2 Digital Divide**

1. <strong>How does someone empower themself in a digital world?</strong>
The top course of action that would empower someone in the digital world is getting access to a piece of technology to become familiar with the internet. In this way they can develop digital literacy skills and learn to navigate technology and understand the risks and benefits. Further, with easy access to any topic they want at their fingertips, they can continuously learn and stay informed about digital developments. They can also take advantage of mass networking platforms that allow people to create a positive online presence and connect with those they otherwise would've never been able to conctact

2. <strong>How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.</strong>
"Someone who is empowered" can be interpreted in many ways. It could be someone who is more knowledgable in a certain area, in a higher economic stance, or just more confident in theirself and identity. In addressing this broad definition, here are a few ways you can empower someone who is inferior to you in some aspect: 
- Share knowledge and skills.
- Be a mentor or coach.
- Advocate for digital equality and accessibility.
- Collaborate on digital projects.
- Support and uplift underrepresented communities online
Specifically at Del Norte, you can become a WHAT tutor to help underclassmen in their essay writing, or volunteer at the nighthawk tutoring session where you can tutor students all different subjects that you are interested in. Further, clubs like National Honor Society are a great way to give back to your community and help underserved communities in their basic needs and education. 


3. <strong>Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?</strong>
A main barrier at Del Norte is the financial barrier. Not all families are able to afford a personal computer for their children. Some ways we can raise awareness and help these people are: 
- Providing digital literacy training and education.
- Partner with community organizations to bridge the digital divide.
- Advocate for government policies that support digital access for all.
- Create and support public spaces with technology access, such as community centers or libraries.
- Collaborate with technology companies to donate equipment and support digital access initiatives.
